mutton curry

Ingredients
For the curry
1 tsp cumin seeds
1 tsp coriander seeds
1 stick cinnamon
1kg/2lb 2oz leg of lamb or mutton, boned and cut into 2.5cm/1in cubes
2 onions, finely sliced
2 garlic cloves, crushed
2.5cm/1in piece fresh root ginger, finely grated
2 long red chillies, sliced
3 tbsp tamarind paste
1 tsp amchoor (mango powder)
500ml/18fl oz beef stock
90g/3½oz desiccated coconut
1 x 400ml/14fl oz can coconut milk
2 tbsp fresh coriander leaves

1 tsp cumin seeds, 1 tsp coriander seeds, 1 stick cinnamon -> toast in pan and grind
hot pan,  add the vegetable oil and the 1kg boned and cut mutton and cook until golden-brown -> remove.
add 2 onions, finely sliced 10 min
Add 2 garlic cloves, crushed, 2.5cm/1in piece fresh root ginger, finely grated, 2 long red chillies, sliced. add ground spices
return mutton + 500ml/18fl oz beef stock. simmer for 1 hr
add 90g/3½oz desiccated coconut and 1 x 400ml/14fl oz can coconut milk
Salt and pepper.

For the curry, heat a heavy-based frying pan until hot, add the cumin and coriander seeds and cinnamon and toast for a few seconds. Place the spices into a pestle and mortar or spice grinder and grind to a powder.

Heat a large heavy-based saucepan pan or casserole dish until hot, add the vegetable oil and the mutton and cook until golden-brown all over. Remove using a slotted spoon and set aside.

Add the onions and cook for 10 minutes, or until soft and golden-brown.

Add the garlic, ginger, chilli, toasted spices and remaining spices and cook for one minute.

Return the mutton to the pan then add the beef stock and bring to a simmer. Cover with a lid and cook over a gentle heat for one hour then remove the lid.

Add the desiccated coconut and the coconut milk and return to a simmer. Cook for another 30 minutes, or until just thickened and the meat is tender. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.

For the rice, heat a saucepan until hot. Add the oil, onion, garlic and spices, and fry for two minutes.

Stir in the rice and add 600ml/1pint 1fl oz water. Bring to the boil, cover and reduce to a gentle simmer. Cook for 18-20 minutes until the rice is tender and all the liquid absorbed. Season with salt, freshly ground black pepper, lemon juice, then stir in the coriander leaves.

Spoon the mutton onto plates with a pile of rice alongside.Finish with a spoonful of yoghurt and mango chutney.



How to make Dabeli Masala Step by Step
Dry roast coriander seeds, cumin seeds, fennel seeds and sesame seeds, cloves, peppercorns, cinnamon, star anise, black cardamom and bay leaf until slightly browned.

Spices added in a pan.
Add dry red chillies and coconut in the pan and roast for another minute.

Dry red chilli and dry coconut added in the pan.
Remove the pan from heat and let the mixture cool down. Transfer the mixture in a blender along with black salt, dry mango powder, dry ginger powder and Kashmiri red chilli powder.

Added in blender along with dry red chilli, salt and chaat masala.
Blend to make a coarse powder.

Coarse powder made.
Transfer the powder in a bowl. 

Transferred in a bowl.
Add powdered sugar and oil and mix well.

Powdered sugar and oil added in the mixture.
Store this masala in an airtight container. Refrigerate for upto a month.